so this edition of get creative is
focusing on microsoft office 2008 my
favorite things the first I'd like to
talk about is the elements gallery with
the elements gallery you can really
build better looking documents across
the entire suite the elements gallery is
available in PowerPoint Word and Excel
elements that are included are things
such as templates quick tables charts
SmartArt graphics and word art you have
themes slide layouts transitions table
Styles charts SmartArt graphics and word
art next is the office art there are a
lot of new image effects such as shadows
glows and reflections and they allow you
to add a new look and very polished feel
to your office 2008 projects some of the
office art elements that are available
to you if we take a look at smart art
graphics these are diagrams graphical
lists and organizational charts I'm
going to go ahead and select a list and
let's go ahead and edit some information
and put in some type here ok so now I
have my information I can move to any of
these different smart art graphics and
change the way this appears and I can
use this for tables project management
tasks life cycles of various projects
relationships I can create a matrix and
pyramids one of my favorites is the
publishing layout this is a new
workspace in office 2008 and it lets
users get to some of the new desktop
publishing tools to build newsletters
flyers and brochures however I want to
stress that this is still not yet ready
for prime time as far as commercial
print in the publishing layout view you
can see that your gallery changes
significantly now you have ax
to publication templates so I'm going to
go ahead and select a publication
template and it basically creates a new
document for me and in this publication
template I'm going to select this
navigation tab and so now I can see all
the various pages that are available to
me within this template and these are
actually image placeholders so they're
holding a spot for a permanent graphic
if i go to my object palette portion of
the formatting palette i have access to
shapes and these are clip art images so
if i wanted to select some of my clipart
you can see as I move in and out of the
square the image changes because that is
a placeholder I can also access my own
iPhoto library directly from here which
is wonderful so I can scroll to any area
let me select a new photo and I'm going
to go ahead and drop in a new image the
toolbox or what I like to call the
formatting palette this is a sweet wide
feature and it provides you with instant
access to the tools you need for
formatting animations transitions
formula buildings and all the new quick
apply styles and effects and this
toolbox is available in each of the
applications and it's so much better
than all the other toolbars that we used
to have going across the top of our
office components now it's just in one
convenient palette one of my new
favorites is the ability to send a I
photo from PowerPoint now that I can
save my slides the iPhoto I can view and
rehearse all my presentations on my
iPhone or from my ipod I simply choose
to save this to iPhoto and it exports
out the images as jpegs creates a brand
new element I photo and then I simply
choose to sync it when i sync up my
iphone or ipod really convenient next is
the ability to save to PDF I really like
this quick save feature however there
are some major flaws with the exported
file
several times I've come up with
instances where it has actually cut off
type if you look at the graphic on this
screen where it says sponsored by it
looks like the very top part of that
type has been sliced off and my get
creative logo is just kind of turn
bitmap II and kind of blended back into
the background so I like it for quick
quick proofing however it's still got a
few flaws within that feature so
exporting out to PDF as as simple as
selecting file save and right here
within our formats menu drop-down and
there it is PDF I'm going to choose to
save this as animals and just save it to
my desktop and here is the original PDF
file pretty cool
themes I really like the new themes
feature you can apply themes to your
overall project and within just one
click you can completely change all the
colors that are using your project or
all the fonts and what's nice about this
is you can preview your documents in all
these different new layout arrangements
with colors and fonts and it keeps your
existing layout intact with document
themes in office 2008 all you have to do
is select a new color theme and it
changes the entire look and feel of your
document you have various color palettes
to choose from and all you have to do is
scroll down the list and pick the colors
that are best for your project you also
have the ability to change your fonts
with just a single click my day is a new
application and what it does is it keeps
track of your to do's and appointments
my day sinks seamlessly with entourage
but also runs as a standalone
application what I like about it is that
I can have it running all the time and I
can see what's going on what's due and
just address those tasks as I need to
the new designs that are available for
charts are really great they're very
refreshing and bold and it's so simple
now to turn your data into really
eye-catching illustrations with the
charting features in office 2008 you can
take your information from Excel and
place it into beautifully created charts
right in Microsoft Office and you have
the ability to customize the charts the
colors how they look use various chart
options and this is built right into
office 2008 and last but not least is
the remote control compatibility with
PowerPoint I can now use the features of
my apple remote to move through my
presentations yay thank you Microsoft
and that's my take on the new office
2008 and I hope you have enjoyed this
this is shelley hall with
that creative during my office 2008
review take care
you